run local vlaidator, someseetign in toml files and root config at ~/solana/config

^not sure where all the config data goes or comes from

if validator is stuck delete the test ledger and re run it, then you have to redploy the porgram to that validator.

i belive the validator listend on a desginated port for rpc

once program is deplyed you can run logs to watch the logs for the pgramag, you can also build and 
run basic clint as well. 


what is done:

-sent funds to program deployed to localinstace of sol blockchain. bocks and transations are stored in the test-ledger at the project root

the project scafolding was created by anchor in anchor init. much like npm create @react-app

in the programs dir is where the code is for the code that runs on chain, basically like the backend. 

ignore all the typseciprt bullshit as much as you can or for as long as you can

too many godamn damn depencenies to automate things that can be done manually pretty simeply. 
you also skip a lot of the blcahin infra stuff doing that 

anywho, im not sure if you restart the vaildaotr if it can read frothe same test-ledger and pass requests(wording)
to the program. ie if it can just read from the test-ledger to get the deployed programs id

the escrow accepts funds, holds them and send them back.

adidiotnal testing could be to check balance of cli wallet that interacts witht he program that the lcient 
pays with, check that balance obviosuly just vie the command lien with solaan balance command after running cleint 
and after 5 minutes 

runnign soalan logs will show the transations that are happening on the chain that the validator is processing,
show what instructions are running and what accounts are being used and more. also will print logs wirten in your
sol program code

 deleting test legedr means you delte the blocks that hold / host the program you deplyed.
 so you need reploy with anchor deploy. 

 if you change the code for the program you obviosuy need to rebuild it, and redeploy it. 


 this part seems important and i dont fully get it . basically quesiton is started this doc with i think.

 Program ID: From test_escrow::ID — imported via the test-escrow crate dependency, which reads declare_id! in lib.rs. Not from the chain.

RPC port: Cluster::Localnet in your client hardcodes http://127.0.0.1:8899. Not from solana config — that's only for CLI commands.

For devnet you'd use Cluster::Devnet or Cluster::Custom("https://...").

